README.md, before:

# AstroDash 
## Project Description
AstroDash is a Java-based 2D platformer game built to demonstrate strong object-oriented programming (OOP) principles. Players can navigate obstacles, collect coins, and avoid enemies and hazards while enjoying responsive movement and interactive gameplay. This project emphasizes maintainable and modular code through inheritance, encapsulation, unit testing, and UML-based class design. I also applied GRASP principles: the Controller pattern is used in the Game and UI classes to delegate requests, while the Creator pattern is applied in the Map and game object classes to manage object creation and maintain clear responsibilities. Map and object data are dynamically read from external files, supporting scalable level design.

## Storyline
User needs to speed run through 4 different maps in order to save their pet dog Astro! Along the way they will encounter and dodge obstacles. The final map will include a fireball battle with the final boss. (Inspired by SuperMario Bros and Fireboy & Watergirl)

## Features
- Smooth player movement, jumping, and collision detection
- Collectible coins with sound effects and tracking
- Dynamic enemies and lava pits affecting player health
- Fireball mechanics for gameplay interaction
- Leaderboard system with persistent file storage for points and times
- Designed a Game and Map system that reads map structure and object positions from external files, generating enemies, coins, obstacles, and checkpoints at runtime.
- Unit-tested classes ensuring reliable game logic


## UML Diagrams 
<img width="271" height="294" alt="Screenshot 2025-12-06 at 8 04 40 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3d4a5dca-d6c1-4d4f-a0c4-e8d9ab24455f" />
<img width="415" height="232" alt="Screenshot 2025-12-06 at 8 04 53 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8546beb7-c019-4f4e-aa2e-81dd71de80f6" />

## Gameplay Screenshots + Recording
- Startup Screen
<img width="226" height="219" alt="Screenshot 2025-12-06 at 8 08 17 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d0e65212-2930-4de2-affa-063f6a4e3fe4" />

- First Map Design
<img width="226" height="219" alt="Screenshot 2025-12-06 at 8 08 30 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/83719b8b-33cd-4f1b-b413-0cdf0cd420a6" />

- Final Boss Battle
<img width="226" height="219" alt="Screenshot 2025-12-06 at 8 08 42 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/53fbc523-1101-4cb9-a7df-d93711feb858" />

- Game Play!
[!https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CtLrwTuRX74]

Commit message:

Revise project description in README.md
Updated project description to include inspiration from SuperMario Bros.

README.md, after:

# AstroDash 
## Project Description
AstroDash is a Java-based 2D platformer game inspired by SuperMario Bros where players can navigate obstacles, collect coins, and avoid enemies and hazards with responsive movement and interactive gameplay. My project utilizes strong object-oriented principles and emphasizes maintainable and modular code through inheritance, encapsulation, unit testing, and UML-based class design. I also applied GRASP principles: the Controller pattern is used in the Game and UI classes to delegate requests, while the Creator pattern is applied in the Map and game object classes to manage object creation and maintain clear responsibilities. Map and object data are dynamically read from external files, supporting scalable level design.

## Storyline
User needs to speed run through 4 different maps in order to save their pet dog Astro! Along the way they will encounter and dodge obstacles. The final map will include a fireball battle with the final boss. (Inspired by SuperMario Bros and Fireboy & Watergirl)

## Features
- Smooth player movement, jumping, and collision detection
- Collectible coins with sound effects and tracking
- Dynamic enemies and lava pits affecting player health
- Fireball mechanics for gameplay interaction
- Leaderboard system with persistent file storage for points and times
- Designed a Game and Map system that reads map structure and object positions from external files, generating enemies, coins, obstacles, and checkpoints at runtime.
- Unit-tested classes ensuring reliable game logic


## UML Diagrams 
<img width="271" height="294" alt="Screenshot 2025-12-06 at 8 04 40 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3d4a5dca-d6c1-4d4f-a0c4-e8d9ab24455f" />
<img width="415" height="232" alt="Screenshot 2025-12-06 at 8 04 53 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8546beb7-c019-4f4e-aa2e-81dd71de80f6" />

## Gameplay Screenshots + Recording
- Startup Screen
<img width="226" height="219" alt="Screenshot 2025-12-06 at 8 08 17 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d0e65212-2930-4de2-affa-063f6a4e3fe4" />

- First Map Design
<img width="226" height="219" alt="Screenshot 2025-12-06 at 8 08 30 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/83719b8b-33cd-4f1b-b413-0cdf0cd420a6" />

- Final Boss Battle
<img width="226" height="219" alt="Screenshot 2025-12-06 at 8 08 42 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/53fbc523-1101-4cb9-a7df-d93711feb858" />

- Game Play!
[!https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CtLrwTuRX74]
